Alright so I'm gonna start the recording right now and try to answer it as much as you can. Right. Uh huh.
But, yeah, I'm going to start so.
Do you have any roommates.
Yes, I do. I have two other roommates.
Two other roommates. Okay. And how is cooking partition between you guys.
Usually I cook.
The male roommate that I have he cooks from time to time but usually we don't really eat his food, and I'm the main one to eat like cook.
So what did they usually cook for the guy he usually cooks. Very, in my opinion, very fatty food, more Americanized food he does try in different cuisine like Asian food but usually doesn't taste the same for female roommate that I have, she likes to
bake more often. And for me, I usually make a whole wide range of things but usually stick to more Asian Vietnamese cuisine.
And are there any difficulties with keeping track of food within your roommates.
Yes, there is,
for instance, there's difficulty in tracking, who bought What if they can eat this with that, as well as if we have certain ingredients.
So, our thought our food do you think it will be more likely to eat it if you were aware that it is sitting in your fridge.
Why, why not.
Um, we would eat it if we were aware, a lot of times, usually we are aware of what's in there but sometimes we forget what's in the fridge.
Okay.
Like, can you give me some examples.
Like, I would make portions enough to last as the whole week. So that would mean that we have a lot of leftovers in the fridge and until we put those in containers and usually they get pushed back into the fridge.
And as we keep going throughout the weeks and months. It may sit back there.
If we don't remember it, or if we don't crave it but another time.
Okay, and that said.
Other like lots of expire food without mind from time to time, food does expire and sometimes they to kind of get moldy, and it's kind of a shame because we have to throw it away.
like, Can you put it into like an amount.
I would say
about once a month we do have to throw something away like one or two containers
containers, like how large are these containers.
Kinda like the Chinese takeout containers, where they put liquids in it.
Oh, I see, I see.
So I'm guessing that like you don't know that they've expired until
months later, right, not months just like a couple of weeks, usually a female roommate does take the consideration of what's in the fridge. I often forget what we have.
But sup from time to time she asked me if this is still okay and then I kind of breeze over it and say, Yes, okay. and they see you know the next day, it goes kind of moldy or sour.
All right. And what's the food leftovers situation like that. Sure home when you're with family, with family so away from my house or.
Yeah, with an apartment.
Yeah, so the food and leftovers.
With away from my house, usually is.
I don't know standard in my eyes because my parents, they, they freeze a lot of things so they don't go bad and leftovers are just defrost and microwave it up.
So, I think they have like a better standpoint, on not letting food rot, whereas in my apartment we don't really have the amount of space to do that kind of routine.
I see.
Okay, like to explain more about this feeling.
So, for me since I grew up kind of poor and scares and growing up, it was like we don't waste food, and we should eat all the food that we have and make sure it doesn't go bad.
So to me, it kind of feels like a gut punch that it's like dang I wasted food. This isn't right. We don't have the money to get more ingredients and we should have been busy instead of eating something else or possibly even ordering takeout.
All right, so
I see the world experiences with eating expired food.
Well, my experiences are food poisoning.
Feelings of regret, but also
feeling sick sometimes.
Okay, so you said that you got sick, right from eating expert food. So, how did that situation affect you.
Be kind of made me want to eat all the food first before getting new things because I don't want to waste food again. And that was right.
I get that right but like how's it being sick from eating food affect you.
affected me because it may be unable to function normally, because I was too busy being in the bathroom, or just feeling under the water to do my daily routines
are what's the oldest item that you have had in your refrigerator.
Well, you know i I think it was.
I think it was a beer or each thing.
This could be something like in the past, or right now that's in your fridge, by the way. Okay, yeah.
My mom gave me a bunch of oranges, but she keeps doing that, and a while back ago I was kind of bored I left one orange to stay there to see if the fridge was the issue with the spoiling everything, and the orange kind of molded over and like became hard
and mushy.
So I would say about like two months that was in there for,
do you organize your fridge to the best of our ability. Yes.
So okay so how do you organize the food in your fridge.
So we tried various different ways, the way of organization that we have written now is that we have takeout and leftovers. On the bottom bracket the fridge.
In the bins where you put fruits and veggies we actually put condiments instead. Because we don't use those as often and we don't see them from like an eye view.
When we open the fridge so it's more or less likely to get spoiled because kind of resource well that easily.
And then we put fruits and veggies on the top rack, where it's closest to like the vent and everything.
And in the middle rack we put stuff like juice, and drinks and eggs if we have them.
How. Oh god. Oh yeah. And then on the door we do put extra economists are things that don't go bad as well.
How often do you find a expiring food.
Before I found expand to every other week or so now that we implemented this sort of structure.
I would say that we don't find that as much however,
let's say, in a month we've only had to throw a food twice.
What's the most common food that you usually throw out.
It's usually fruits, because they tend to expire faster in our fridge.
Any specific fruits or this fruits, in general,
I would say, apples, and one point we had like grapes so I would say, fruits, with a lot of moisture content inside.
With basically high water content. Yeah, There we go.
Okay, so.
Okay.
So how do you how do your values impact your decisions when you go grocery shopping, my values in what way.
Like do you look to buy local produce or organic foods or Oh yeah, so I like to shop for groceries at least like fresh groceries at markets, particularly like farmers markets but since there's not that many here I go to more produce shops that are not
huge companies such as Walmart and everything so we have a fresh belly mark here and I buy produce from there.
And I guess like my values, kind of like, get in the way of their because they. We do use the food, but I feel worse about when it spoils because it was actual fresh food that we made with the food that we bought.
But we also do go to like the food pantry and stuff to which we don't feel 100% bad if it goes bad, but there's still the feeling of regret and such.
Why, why is that so because its food and when spoiled when we could have not had it spoil.
Now, tell me about a time when you decide to go grocery shopping and how much or what you buy each time.
Um, so we do grow grocery shopping, every one or two weeks.
At one time, we don't buy that much. Actually we buy about a handful, or not begs for three people to bring in, but typically we buy me and some other ingredients to make something with that.
I'm like, what kinds of meat.
Usually we go for the cheapest cans of meat because we're trying to save money on cheapest.
Do you know what kind of cuts. Usually for, we get chicken.
The darker meat so like dies and wings and stuff, and sometimes breast for certain things that we're making.
I don't particularly buy beef, because in. For me it's not my preference I don't typically like to eat beef.
And we buy a lot of fish, actually, and seafood products.
And I'm.
What kind of fish or seafood. Such fish such as tuna filets, and then a salmon Falaise to, or they call it tuna steaks, I think. And then we also get
whole fish from like the market as well. And I just got in clean it up and just fried upper pig.
So doesn't matter to you whether or not. Food is organic.
Yeah, I typically like it to be organic. However, with the means that I am in under right now I don't afford it all the time. But when I do buy organic I try to make it less and try not to make a slow because it costs more.
So that said, what sorts of dishes do you make again.
I typically like to cook more agent South foods, because that reminds me of home and what I ate as a kid growing up, so I cook more Vietnamese food, but also do some Chinese food, as well since that was also what we were growing up with, like, what part
like, do you know what, I'm region the Chinese food is coming from inspired from.
I'm not sure 100% it's what my mom takes it from IC.
And that said, um, do you plan your meals, like do you cook them.
And like Panama for like the next 10 days for example.
Uh, no, not in particular I just wake up one day and figure hey I want to cook this, and then call up my mom and ask if she has any recipes for that.
Or just wing it. But with that food it just lasted for a while, however many times that make it because I make large portion sizes to last us for the whole week, even though pretty much you cook fresh and you don't you don't plan, as long as there's like
leftovers right. That's going to be the meal for the day. Yeah, and for, and with however much leftovers we have, that's the meal for X amount of more days.
Okay.
Is there been a time where you want to cook something but you didn't know if you had to gradients or not give up 10 again.
Has there ever been a time where you want to cook something, but didn't know whether or not you had the ingredients. Oh yeah, a multitude of times, I mean, even right now my roommates went out to buy some ingredients because the guy wanted to make some
fried rice so they're going to get ingredients right now.
I see, and the US separately recipes when you cook dishes.
For me, I typically don't use set recipes, I do it from memory or taste. And for my roommates, they typically like to use set recipes because they don't cook as often as I do.
Do you cook dishes. Oh, do you cook dishes often or do you repeat them often.
Like, as in you cook the same thing, like for the entire month for example or do like mix it up. Oh no I'm, mix it up. If we cook different time month I'd probably go crazy.
All right, I see So, do you have any anything to change or added to any of the answers to the previous questions. I don't think so. I'm
for the one nutritional value in our food, I do pay a lot of attention to that because I have food insecurity, but kind of state we're in, I'm just trying to make do with what we have and what we can get.
That makes sense.
So any other final thoughts.
Uh, I think that is all right so I'd like to thank you for your time, just letting you know